Question::
How is energy generated from mass? or vice versa.
How is magnetism generated from current? or vice versa.
How is time generated from space? or vice versa.
Why electrons revolve around the nucleus??
--May be because of the magnetic field present which we don't know.


Reltion between space and time, mass and energy, current and magnetism::
If a object takes less space, then it will have slower time.(space ma gako spacecraft ko time is slower than earth time
because spacecraft occupies less space than earth:: twin paradox)

If a object has less mass, then it will have less energy.

Likewise, if there is less current, magnetism generated is less.

Similarly, all the statements are true reverse also.  //(may be if a object occupy very very less space ie,0 or point 
then it will experience no time ie, time freezes.)

But if larger mass tends to occupy the point space then it will curve the space-time curve.(worm hole.   //then speed 
of time increases largely.)

There is always energy in the steady state of mass.
There is always time in steady state of space.
There is always magnetism in steady state of electrical current.(but are disoriented)

Larger energy can be generated if we concentrated mass in one place.
Larger magnetism can be generated if magnetic dipoles are oriented rightly.
Greater speed of time can be generated if larger mass could be concentrated to point space.

Electron flow causes the magnetism.
Contraction and relaxation of space causes time.
State(rest or motion), state(matter) change of mass causes energy.

Why does the current carrying conductor creates magnetic force -- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1TKSfAkWWN0

Actually the magnetic force is the illusion from our frame of refrence but is the elctrical force from 
the atomic level refrence.For clarity, see above link.

Maybe likewise, the time and the energy can be the illusion from our frame of refrence.(think)

When the firewoods are burnt, we feel that heat energy is produced.But what if it only from our frame of refrence.
But actually it is only just a process of transformation of mass from one form to another(woods to ash).

Electricity is the movement of electrons from one atom to the another atom.For example,copper is good 
conductor of electricity beacause it has one electron in it's outermost cell so it can allow that electron
to move to another atom.

Voltage is the energy that cause the electron in the outermost cell to move to another atom.

The DC current also can be stepped up or stepped down with the help of circuit containing transistors,
diode, inductors and capacitors.
The back emf produced in the inductor is stored in the capacitor to step the voltage up.

Quantum means not having a continuous chain and can be separated into small parts.
For example, a TV screen is made up of pixels which are quantized at very tiny level means 
they are not chains going up to infinity but can be counted as different modules.

Quanta means the smallest size that cannot be broken down into smallest pieces further.
Like previously assumed as atom was the smallest one in the universe and later electron and other particles discovered.

Planck length is the smallest length possible.(10^-35 m)
Planck area is the smallest area and
Planck volume is the smallest volume.

Which all comprises a small quanta which have length planks length,area planck area and volume planck volume.
These quanta forms the space.

Also there is the limit to the smallest time that is planck time(10^-43 sec).

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRr1kaXKBsU --- very important

What happens when we cast the shadow of our finger onto the moon and move the finger by 1cm.Will shadow move over 
the surface of the moon.

Why only binary system is used in the computers?
Although we say, current flow is 1 and no flow of electricity is 0 but we could have make the current level of 1,2,3,4,5
quinary or a octal systems.

only 2 states of current flow are taken into considerations because the current flow is changed because of the 
waves around us so that if we wanted to send the level 4 current, current of level 2 might flow because of 
current limiting things around us like microwaves.That is why there is a certain level of current flow for individual
1 and 0 state.



















